- [Instructor] Let's take a high-level look at GitOps
and start to impact what it means.
At a very high level, you can think of GitOps
as an iteration of DevOps that is
centered around source code management.
And for most developers source control means using Git.
It's pretty much the de facto standard.
So let's start with this idea
that DevOps is the foundation of GitOps.
DevOps is a mixture of principles, practices, and tools
that allow teams to deliver higher quality software
at a faster pace.
DevOps starts with culture.
Teams embrace principles like breaking down silos,
continuous improvement, automation,
and frequent communication that improve
how they deliver software.
These principles change the way people
in an organization think about developing
and operating digital products.
This influences how they work and they adopt practices
that rapidly deliver small incremental changes.
Tools are needed to automate and support these practices,
so you'll find teams that embrace DevOps using tools
that enable practices like frequent communication,
CICD, and containerization.
So you kind of get these two sides of DevOps,
the concepts and the execution.
Okay, so what about GitOps, right?
GitOps applies a Git-centric approach
on top of some common DevOps principles,
practices, and tools.
So we mix these principles centered around Git
in with our DevOps workflows to get this new way
of operating and managing software.
The principles established by the GitOps community
stem from the idea that all system changes are made
through source control, like Git, and from there,
they're automatically deployed.
Developers have been doing this forever,
however, GitOps shifts this practice to the operations side,
where infrastructure configuration is stored as code.
So you wind up with all your system changes
described in Git as commits,
and those commits in their entirety
make up the desired state of your system.
That desired state then needs to be reflected
in your running system,
which is done via a GitOps concept known as a control
or a reconciliation loop.
Don't worry, we're going to talk about that more later.
But that's the core of GitOps.
Commit all of your systems desired changes into Git,
and that's what runs on your system.
There's more to it than that.
You have the principles which are generally agreed upon.
However, the practices can vary differently across groups
and in some cases they're tough to put in place.
Throughout the course, we're going to dive deeper
into the principles, practices,
and tools as we explore GitOps.